The following is a conversation with Mark Normand, a New York comedian who has a way
with words that is often both dark and hilarious. Let there be a warning, dear friends, to proceed
with caution and to wear protection. You may, in fact, need it. He has a special on his YouTube
called Out to Lunch and a new special on Netflix as part of the Stand Up Season 3 series I recommend
you watch. This is the Lex Friedman podcast. To support it, please check out our sponsors in
the description. And now, here's my conversation with Mark Normand. I asked Tim Dillon about
Bukowski first, so let me continue on that tradition and ask you about something that
Charles Bukowski said about love. Are we rolling? Yes. Oh geez, no hello, no nothing. Nope. I thought
I was robotic. Bukowski said love is a fog that burns away with the first daylight of reality.
So Mark Normand, let me first ask you about love. What are your thoughts about love? You talk about
your relationship quite a bit. Do you think love can last? I do, but I think it's work. Everybody
wants love to be this prepackaged, perfect, euphoric thing, but it's like a good body.
We're all born with a good body, but you got to keep it in shape and it's the same with a loving
relationship. I think you, nobody wants to do the work. That's the problem. You talked about,
I think you told a story about being unfaithful to a previous girlfriend or something like that.
I think the story goes that you were like drifting apart. Who are you talking to? Bert
Kreischer maybe or something like that? Yeah, we were high school sweethearts dated for like
12 years and then. So that wasn't love anymore. That was more like a relationship. It was comfort,
it was routine and we just slipped into that kind of married life autopilot world and I tried to
break up I think and it didn't take. It was one of those things. Our lives are just so baked in
and then I think I cheated and she caught me and it was ugly and then we went to therapy to try
to work it out, but it's much like a car that gets into a wreck. The door just never closed the
same. You know what I mean? Yeah. So what are your thoughts about the commitment like outside of
love marriage? I think it's an antiquated idea. I think it's kind of silly and unrealistic and I
think we're coming out of that as we get all polyamorous and non binary and queefy and all
this stuff. I think we're slowly moving away from that, but I think a lot of the ladies
more majority women like marriage like the idea of it. Like I'm a fiance now or whatever you call
it. I'm gauged and I mean she is just going hog wild. She's loving it. She's got the dress thing,
pick a venue, flower and she's deep in whereas I feel guilty because I'm just like, oh geez.
Is it planned already? What's the wedding? It's a squid game. I'm just living life.
It's planned. It's in New Orleans. I'm from there and it's next year. Are you married?
No, single. Virgin? Of course, yeah. I can't imagine. I bet you'd be great in bed. You're
ripped. Best hairline in podcasts. Yeah, I don't know. I haven't tried yet, so we'll have to see.
All right. Well, let me know. Pretty big hog on you. Yeah, I could see you packing a crazy,
crazy tool downtown. That matters to girls? Apparently, yeah. That's all I hear about.
Okay. New Orleans. You grew up in New Orleans? Yeah. Born and raised.
Tremay, outside the French Quarter. Ever been? Yeah. Don't remember it. Oh, you drink? Yeah,
I drink. Of course, I drink. I don't know. I can't tell if you have fun. No, not really, but Russian.
I mean, Russian, of course, I drink vodka, all that kind of stuff. Yeah, yeah. I don't know.
Beer was just labeled an alcoholic beverage in 2011. Fun fact. What do you mean? In Russia.
It was just drinks. It was just like apple juice before. It finally got declared legally as an
alcoholic beverage. Which means you can regulate it, that kind of thing. I guess so. Yeah. See,
that's where your brain goes. Yeah. I just go all these fucking Ruskies. I didn't even know
there's rules about drinking. It's good. I'm learning about Russia from you. So,
what's the difficult memory experience from childhood in New Orleans that made you the man
you are today? I don't know if it made me the man, but jeez, I had a lot of scuffles in the
neighborhood with I was the white kid in the neighborhood. So, I was automatically the odd
man out, the minority, the weirdo, the dork, the dweeb, the honky. So, just a lot of memories of
getting slapped in the face by guys and just having to take it because there's like five guys there
and they'd be like, oh, look, you don't even fight back. And you're like, what am I going to do?
Hit you and then get beat up by these guys. So, a lot of that stuff was a big bummer growing up,
got robbed all the time, lost a lot of bicycles, had a bicycle taken from under me. That was pretty
brutal. These kids pulled up, you know, they're like 17 and I was 13 and I had a face paint on,
like I had a not black face, but I was at a summer camp and I had a rainbow face painted on me. We
were helping kids that day. So, I let them put paint on me. And so, now I'm riding home. What a
mark. What a goober I am. I'm riding home and these guys see me a mile away. I'm a sitting duck
and they go, we can take his bike. He's got a fucking rainbow on his cheek. So, they just go,
hey, you know, like cut in front of you. They go, let me try your bike. I go, I'm good. I'm good.
I knew what they wanted. And they go, let me try the bike and then just push me and took the bike.
The stuff like that was really shaping the insecurity, the self worth.
They did. Because I've been mugged when I was younger too.
Really? Yeah. It changes your view of human nature a little bit.
For sure. You go, wow, I didn't know people could be this mean. It's cool.
Inconsiderate. I'm always worried about it. Did I fart too much? Am I annoying? Am I pissing this
guy off? But what a way to live. I want the bike. I'm taking it. Fuck his feelings.
For me, that quickly turned into realizing that that's just a temporary phase that those folks
are in. They have a capacity to be good. For some reason, for me, that was a motivation to see,
can we discover, can we incentivize them to find a better path in life? I wasn't all like,
I don't know, Gandhi about it. Of course, I was pissing all those kinds of things, but
I don't know. It seemed like just the kind of thing you might do when you're younger.
You hope. But this is adult crime, obviously. Yeah, I know. But yeah, exactly. And then it solidifies
and then you're beyond saving at some point. But it's like, there's always an opportunity to
make a better life for yourself, to become a better version of yourself.
Yeah. And I remember coming home crying with no bike. And my mom, my parents are like,
liberal to a fault where they were like, oh, well, they need it. They're poor kids in the
neighborhood. You're like, all right. But I also have a bicycle that I ride around. And I also
like to live in an area that's not just riddled with theft and vandalism, but they were just like,
ah, they need it. And then it was a moot point, we just moved on. So I remember very young being
like, all right, I got to figure my shit out. Okay. So you said you were beat up quite a bit,
like bullying and stuff pushed around. I was never hospitalized or anything. But you know,
you get a black guy here and there and a bloody nose, stuff like that. And it was just the out
numbered thing. The violence didn't really bother me because you're just kids, you're boys. Yeah.
But it was the predatory, let's get them. We can take him down. He's an easy target.
That's what kills you, the mental part. Yeah. Until you actually said I didn't realize,
because I've been in what do you call them, scuffles. And there was just one that stands
out to me where, yeah. Let's hear it, Fatty. Bring it on. And you do jujitsu and all that stuff,
right? Yeah, I can see the guns through the suit. You're like John Wick. All right. Well,
I used to have, now you're going to start making fun of me. I used to have long hair for like a
couple of years. I was in a band playing music and stuff like that. And there was,
like most of the fights I've been in were basically one on one, maybe a little bit like,
a little extra stuff, but not outnumbered. And this one particular time, I've learned a lot
of lessons, but one of them was, there was a fight started between me and this other person.
And then his buddies, I guess, were there. Uh oh. And they, as opposed to like breaking
it up or letting it happen, one of them grabbed my hair. It's the first time anybody grabbed,
like used it in my hair in a fight, which I haven't since then realized that that's actually
a really powerful grip and a powerful weapon. Oh yeah. Oh, very vulnerable of you.
And then my head got pulled back and they pulled me down to the ground. Like I couldn't do anything.
It was so, I remember being exceptionally frustrated. Yes. That was the feeling like,
I can't do anything here. I'm like trapped. And then they, there was just like kicking me and
hitting me and stuff like that. And the outnumbered part of it, because I always kind of remember
the trapped part because I just hated from a fighting grappling perspective how like,
the feeling was this isn't fair. Yes. That's what it is. It's a deep, deep unfairness. Yeah.
That you just can't, you can't win. The mob wins. Yeah. The mob wins.
Scary stuff. And, but it makes a, makes a man out of you in a weird way that builds character.
You realize life isn't fair early and you, you go on from there. So it's something there. And
look at you today. They're probably, you know, eating out of a dumpster at a Krispy Kreme and
you're here, got eight podcasts. You're doing great. You're talking to giant Titans of the industry.
No, I, I do remember returning home that night. I mean that, you said you were crying.
That's really formative. Like, that's the point in which you get to decide, what do I make of
this moment? I mean, especially when you're younger, maybe it's not presented to you that way. But like,
some of the greatest people in history were bullied in these kinds of ways. And they made
something of themselves in this moment, like bullied by life in some kind of way. It's,
it's like an opportunity for growth. It's weird, but like hardship even in small doses is like
an opportunity for growth. Totally. I mean, look at Richard Pryor. They say he's labeled as the
best comedian of all time, grew up in a whorehouse, watch his mom get plowed by these guys in the,
in the middle of Indiana, I want to say. And just who had a harder life. He would suck dick for
drugs, all this stuff growing up, beat up. And then the weird thing is, oops, sorry, that's my
birth control alarm. And then the, the whole world is like trying to get rid of bullying.
But we still do bullying, but now it's accepted bullying. It's very strange.
So you're, you're a proponent of beating kids up? Is that what you're saying?
Yes. And sex with them. All right. But no, I just think it's part of life and it's horrible. It's
like rain. You got to have it. Look, a rainy day is a bummer, you know, but you need it. And I think
it's similar to that. What was your relationship like with your, your mom, your dad? Well,
what are some memorable moments with them? What did you learn from them?
Good parents, the giving thoughtful, a little out to lunch, you know, they were workaholics. So
that was, it was hard to get a lot out of them. And my dad was kind of an angry dad. I think he
just had like a weird childhood and he's just trying to make it and he's trying to provide,
but it's hard. And we live in this horrible neighborhood and we're getting robbed all the
time. So life was kind of coming down on him all the time. So then he'll take it out on you or
whoever he would snap. But great parents, they cared, they put us first. But there wasn't a lot of,
I don't know, you see, you never go to a friend's house as a kid and there's like a
picture of a ski trip and you're like, ski trip. What the hell is that about? You know,
it was a lot of that and smart, very smart people, but I don't know how well they were at
socializing. So you never like bonded with them like in a deep human level?
Some body, but rarely deep. Yeah, it was just almost co worker. It cold out. Huh?
What? It's cold out, huh? Oh yeah, like that kind of stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah, gotcha.
Get there a little bit, but it, my parents are done. I hope they never do this. But they would do
a thing where my dad especially would do a thing where he would, uh, he knew how to cut you down
right to the bone. And so after a while, you're like, I'm not even going to interact with this
guy because he, he can get you so well. One time we were at a, uh, like a Thanksgiving,
some kind of family of event and all the cousins are there. And I remember I was holding court.
I was a young boy finding my comedic legs in this weird tumultuous sea we call a family
and I was killing and, um, my dad comes out when he goes, what are you holding court?
And I was like, ah, and I felt like I was this big. I just shrunk down. He just nailed it
because in my head I'm like, I'm holding court. Look at me. I got the whole room and he goes,
what are you, what are you holding court here? Who the hell do you think you are? And I was like,
he's right. I shouldn't be holding court. Who the fuck am I? I'm nobody. So, uh,
stuff like that. Was he aware that you think he wasn't? He wasn't. I don't think he was, but
do you, do you give, um, parents a pass when they're unaware of the destructive? Like,
is it better when they're unaware? Cause it seems like that's the way that's true. That's
way the way parents often fail is they're not intentionally malevolent. They're just like
coolest. Yeah. It's a bittersweet thing. Cause you're like, okay, he's not malicious. He's not
trying to hurt me, but also he doesn't know he hurt me. I don't know. It's, it's tough. Cause
if he was trying to hurt you, I guess that would be worse. So you're the fully baked Mark
Norman cake at this point. Uh, what do you, uh, fruit salad, you know, the sense of self worth
you mentioned. I think in your comedy, there's a sense like you hate yourself. You think? I
didn't know if that came through. Shit. I was trying to hide that part. God damn it. I mean,
when you like in the privacy of your mind, are you able to love yourself or is it mostly self
hate? What happened to this podcast? I didn't know it was on a Mr. or Dr. Phil. Dr. Phil. I thought
we were going to talk about engineering and climate change and rockets. Uh, okay. Starts with love
goes to rockets. All right. I like that. I like that's a t shirt. Um, I mean, like, what's the
question? Sorry. Do I feel love? No, no, no, like, uh, yeah, yeah. So are you, um,
like this engine of being self critical of just being constantly anxious about how the world
perceives you, these kinds of things. Is this something that you just go to for, for comedy?
Or is this who you are as a human being? I think I, I don't want to explore it. I think I get
around it. You know, I tap dance around it, but I get it out a little with my act, maybe, because
I, I can't do it. I'm not doing it in real life. So I'll get out this, uh, no love, not loving
myself. I don't know who wants to love themself. Everybody always like, you got to love yourself.
And then when you meet somebody who does love yourself, you're like, I fucking hate this guy.
Don't you hate the guy who's upset? I'm great. I'm awesome. Life is good. You're like, ah,
this guy sucks. I'd rather an insecure guy. So maybe I want to stay insecure. Maybe I don't want
to find this love for myself. Well, okay. So self love, like just appreciating who you are or
like appreciating the moment of being grateful doesn't have to express itself by the guy saying,
I'm awesome. True. It's more just like humility. He's just like walking calmly through the world
and just being grateful to be alive, that kind of thing. And just, and like, oh, being appreciative
of all the accomplishments he made so far. I say all this because mostly I'm extremely self critical
and everything I do. And so, um, and I kind of enjoy it. I think it's a nice little engine that
it makes it fun. It makes life fun. Cause it's like, if you hate everything you do,
like you've done in the past, that gives you like, all right, we can do better. Yes. But
that's the key is making itself critical. Always trying to get better. I could change this. I could
tweak this. I could improve this. When you just go, I hate that I do this. I suck. You just shut
down. So that's the key is, is always being productive with the, with the criticism. Yeah.
And the basics of life, I'm just like grateful for it to be alive. That's nice to be a couple,
like couple of that with two legs. Again, the hairline, the hog, the muscles, the world,
you got a good brain on you. I mean, you're, you're lucky. You're in the top. You know,
most people are fat as shit at Burger King right now, hitting their kids. You're in a,
you're in a Ramada hotel sitting with a, you know, a low level comedian. For the record,
I ate McDonald's last night. All right. Well, you're human. Well, just so you know,
this is not me defending. I'm not sponsored by McDonald's, but I mostly eat meat and there's
nothing wrong with the, the beef they have. It's actually one of the easiest ways late at night.
I think it's two worse. I don't know if it's actually. It's, it's actually rats. Yeah, you're
right. But hey, it's just meat. I'm a meat guy myself. They say in 20 years, we're going to
look back and go, uh, can you believe people ate meat? It's going to be like slavery.
Yeah. There's some mythical, difficult things with factory farming.
Yeah. So let's ride it out now. We still got it. And now it's on record.
Tom Waits says something about New York. You like Tom Waits?
I think he's underrated. I think he's got great, he's got a great, uh,
he's great equips and quotes. Check him out on YouTube. He's got some montages and
supercuts of him being hilarious. What does he say about, um,
I'd rather have a bottle in front of me than a frontal lobotomy.
That was the one. That was the one that sold me. I was like, this guy's awesome.
Yeah. But his music, cause he's just a genius musician.
Yeah. Anyway, he was talking about New York. I was walking around these, I'm in New York right
now. We're in New York right now. It's still a magical city to me. A lot of people are quite
cynical about it, about the state of things, but not, not like Michael Malis, like a lot of friends
of mine. They're just a lot of folks in San Francisco, New York, there's something about
the pandemic where people have become quite cynical about the place they are and they tried
to escape. It's interesting. I mean, they're asking some difficult questions about what they are in
life. They're having like a self impose midlife crisis is good, I think for everybody to go
through this process, but I think, I hope New York reemerges. It will.
As the flourishing place for the weirdos. Anyway, the Tom Wade said, New York, of course,
is to be in endless surreal situations where a $50,000 gunmetal Mercedes pulls up in a
puddle of blood and outsteps a 25 karat blonde with a $2 wrist watch. And he goes, he keeps
going on. So like it's like, that's like bars. He's like a rap. Yeah, he's good. But basically,
just the absurdity of it all, lots of money, lots of weirdos, degenerates and dreamers and the whole,
the whole mix of it. Do you think, do you think that's an accurate description of what New York
is today? Like, is there still place for the weirdos and just the interesting artists,
the, the edgy, the comedians, the, the creators, the, the, the, the entrepreneur is like,
as opposed to like Wall Street, as opposed to like rich folk and then like hopeless folk.
Yeah, I think it's definitely changed a lot. There's a, there's a tiny corner for us weirdo
artists. New York used to be where you went to make it as a painter or whatever, a comedian or a
singer. And there were all these dives and shit boxes and all these places you could go. And now
there's now it's more pink berries and subway sandwiches and Chase Banks. So it's definitely
lost a lot of its creative edge. It's just money, money keeps coming in. And now you see all these
comedians move to Nashville, Austin, Denver, whatever. So it doesn't have the, the power it
used to have of like, you got to be here. If you want to make it, that's definitely gone. So that
hurt the city a lot. The city is, is way more soulless. When I moved here in 07, I mean, not
only did I get mugged three times in the first year, but it was a hub of like, it felt like
things were happening here. You know, it was, it was an energy. It was an electricity. And we
still have the electricity, but it's also maybe just cause it's Times Square. There's Soho. There's
a Wall Street. So we got the staples, but there is a little bit of that. It's almost like a marriage.
Like, yeah, we're in love, but it's not as passionate as it once was. That's how I would equate New
York. What gives you hope? You're pretty hopeful about it though. I'm hopeful just because I know
it's magical. And I, and I think it has to be, I mean, it's the epicenter of America. Like,
this is where the immigrants came. And this is where the stock market is. And the entertainment
industry, a lot of it is here. So I think it's, it's going to happen, but it's something like
the bottom has to fall out. And then people have to move back here and all that. So something,
the corporations are kind of fucking us. They're just buying everything.
Well, that's true for everything. It's true for Austin probably as well. People are just buying
out land and all that kind of stuff. You always hear a Hemingway and Dolly and all these guys
went to Paris in the 20s or whatever that was. Yeah, I get it now. I feel like, why do these
guys go to Paris? You know, why are these artists? And now I get it because it's like,
it's freer there. That's why Austin became like that Paris, where everybody's like,
I got to get out of LA. I'm going there. And maybe, but we came back from that, you know,
the seventies were wild and nineties were cool. So maybe it'll come back. I just take a decade.
Well, there's always, that's how stories are told. There's always pockets of
like Paris within New York, right? True. There's just an opportunity to
let your weird flourish is there in New York, I'm sure. I mean,
it's there. You got to find it before it was front and center.
What's your favorite thing about New York? Like what kind of things just like,
I mean, how long is this pod? I could go on. It's too much to put into one hour. We've got
other questions, but I love that one neighborhood is wildly different than the next. I mean,
little Italy, and then you take four steps. Now I'm in Chinatown. I mean, and then the history
there and then the stories and the food and the culture and all that. And then you go 10 feet
over here. Now you're in Brooklyn and this is insane as a whole nother world. And it's almost
like a little America in one, you know, a city and it's great. And just the fact that they pulled
it off like Fifth Avenue goes way up and you're like, there's a billionaire's house next to a
hobo. And then this is a black guy who's fighting with a Cuban guy and an Asian guy is trying to
get in the middle of them and the cabbies from the Middle East. And there's so many beautiful
women here. And there's so many brilliant minds here. And the pace is great. It keeps people
moving. I mean, it just, you can't beat it. And the city will fuck you in the ass too. Don't get
me wrong. You landed JFK and you're like, Oh God, I got mugged. My Uber driver called me a
homo. I stepped in human shit. Where the fuck am I? So yeah, it's bad news. But that bad news,
it's almost like the bullying. It kills you in a weird way, but it makes you stronger and you
build more layers and layers and layers. That's why some new guys, some hayseed from Milwaukee
shows up. You've been here 10 years and you go, let me help you out because you got to adjust.
You're going to get your ass kicked for like six months. But I know the ropes a little and I think
you need a little of that. If the treadmill is not on, you're not going to run. New York,
the treadmill is on. So it just makes you run and it makes you better and look at wears on you.
You probably lose 10 years of your life living in New York versus Indianapolis, but
it's a better life. Have you seen 25th hour? Yeah. It's been a while. Spike Lee joint?
Yeah, Spike Lee joint. I mean, at Norton, there's a whole like monologue there about New York.
Oh, that's right. But they're talking about just, he has like a mix. There's like melancholy music,
I think, or just a melancholy feel to the whole thing, but there's an anger and a disgust with
the city. But through the anger and the disgust comes out like a love for the city. Same with
was Taxi Driver in New York? Oh yeah. It's going crazy. Yeah. So like that, there's something
about that. What is that? What is that grit of the city that like pushes you down?
Well, that's the beauty of the city is it's this tribal human nature like the sex shops and fist
fights and racism and all this tension, but yet it's the epicenter of technology and finance
and sophistication on Fifth Avenue. So you get that juxtaposition. It's kind of like in Boston.
You go to Boston, they got MIT, they got Hobbit, they got all this shit. And then they got the
fishermen, the blue collar douchebags, the Irish guys, the immigrants, you know, and you get that
mix of like insanely smart with Wicked Pissa and these two worlds. And that's a good thing.
It's like when a black guy fucks an Asian lady, that's a good looking kid. You get a mix. We're
mixing two totally different things. They're coming together and it makes it like peanut butter and
chocolate. Peanut butter and chocolate. I've never tried that. What? Peanut butter. Maybe I have.
I'm talking about Reese's, man. Like Reese's, yeah, and yeah, yeah. Oh, it's the best candy.
Yeah. Without the fakeness of LA, without the kind of facade. Yeah, LA's tough.
What's the difference between LA comedy and New York comedy, too?
I think one place you kind of go to make it and be discovered and be loved and one place
you go, you can get all that in New York, too, but I think in New York it's more of a school,
a boot camp of comedy. Let's make great comedy. Let's make original comedy. Let's watch the other
guys and gals who are at the show, at the clubs and learn from them and try to hang out with them
and absorb some of them. In LA, it's like, when am I on? I'm next. Get out of my way.
I'm the star here. I'm a bigger star than you. Oh, this guy's actually a big star. I got to
outwork. It's just a lot of that instead of like, damn, that was funny. I got to be that funny.
Damn, I wish I had a joke. Look, I don't want to speak for LA comics because there's
Bill Burr and the Gelseneck. There's brilliant LA comic, but they all cut their teeth in New
York. Just saying. Then they moved to LA. It's a good point. All these people kill their comics,
but New York started in New York, moved to New York. There is something about comics that's
staying in New York for a long time, though, like Dave Vitell. You know about Dave? Yeah,
he wants to do this podcast. He does? Yeah, I'm a huge fan of Dave Vitell. But it's almost like he
doesn't want to make it. I don't know. I mean, you probably know him, but it feels like you just,
maybe it's romanticizing it, but you're like, you almost just love the art of comedy of like
becoming funnier, crafting the jokes, becoming funnier than the other comics, like competing
with each other kind of thing. Not over like money or fame or any of that. Just purely the
comedy of it. Totally. That's Dave. That's him in a nutshell. He's like that guy in the movies in
the 80s, action movies where they're like, they go up to a creek in Montana and some guys living
in a cabin and he's sharpening a stick and they go, the Russians are coming. They're invading.
We need you. You're the best commando. And he's like, I gave that up, man. I'm done with that
lifestyle. They're like, but you're the best. We need you. And he has to suit up eventually.
You know, he looks at a picture of his dead wife and he goes, fuck it. I'm going. And then they,
you know, fight the Ruskies. But he's that guy. He just is gifted. He's like got a gift from Allah
and he's the best. Yeah, a lot of comics give him props. It's always surprising to me. I didn't
because it's surprising to me because he hasn't really made it like big. He did in the 90s. He
was huge. He had his own TV show. He was the boy. Yeah. Yeah. That show was, that show was awesome.
But I mean, like as big as I think he deserves to be. So I, well, that's art. The mainstream
shit is always the worst. It's like McDonald's versus some hole in the wall. I know I'm shitting
on McDonald's again, but it's good. And, you know, certain comics we could name are good, but
the, the delicacy is going to be less talked about and less household namey than, than the
mainstream hacky shit. Yeah, it's funny because he hasn't, I think he was on Joe Rogan's show once,
maybe. Yeah. And he was with somebody else. Jeff Ross. Yeah. He might have been with Jeff
Ross. Oh yeah. Cause they did that, like two mics thing, whatever. Yeah. But he's the quickest guy.
There's no one funnier. Yeah. Yeah. Him and you, you're super quick. Your appearance on,
recent appearance on Rogan's hilarious. Oh, thanks. Just so fast. You're on with Ari and
Shangillis. Shangillis. Yeah. That was fun. We're going back in January.
I don't know when this comes out. This has never come out. Neither will you. We're having fun.
Yeah. All right. So what does it feel like to bomb in standup comedy, like to fail? Maybe the
psychology of it first, like, just take me through it. Cause we're talking about being
outnumbered in a fight, just being beat up. Very similar. By the way, this is like a no eye contact
off. Yeah. Yeah. We're both uncomfortable with it. Yeah. It's great. It's kind of nice to be with
my people. But yeah. Dina should have paper to look at her. I'm going, I got a good sweet spot
right there. Nice. Yeah. It's a nightmare, but it's part of it. It's the validation too is the
worst part. Cause whenever you do comedy and kill, you can be a great comic, but even David
tell these brilliant guys, they feel like they're getting, you feel like you're getting away with
something. I don't have a day job. I'm telling jokes for a little bit. I'm talking about my
dick up here and they're fucking loving me and they call me a genius and all this. I'm talking
about my sack. Yeah. You know, and, uh, and it's great. It makes people happy and it's funny, but
uh, that bombing, when you bomb, you go, your first thought is like, yeah, you're right. At
first you're like, fuck you got what? You don't like this shit. And then you just start going in.
You're like, yeah, maybe it isn't that good. Maybe they're right. I do suck. I knew I sucked.
I should become a mailman, you know, and, uh, it stinks and it feel, you feel alone and you feel
like you wasted their time and then you're like, what was I thinking? I could be a comedian. What
the fuck? Who am I? You know, Eddie Murphy. What am I doing here? So, uh, it's a lot of just spiraling
out of horrible thoughts, but I also love that it hurts so bad. Bombing fucking hurts because
now, now everybody doesn't do it. I think a lot more people could do comedy probably and figure
it out, but the bombing is so brutal that it keeps, uh, one time I went to Minneapolis, I was
like, this is a great city. I mean, the sun is shining. Why isn't this city like packed and they're
like, cause the winters are so bad and we love it cause it keeps everybody out. And I feel like
the same about comedy. The bombs are so brutal. I've had bombs where I'm in bed. I'm just staring
at the ceiling like, what the fuck was that? Like you have PTSD. I bombed at an arena once, 20,000
people. I did 30 minutes to silence. So it's not just like one joke fails. It's like they start
piling on like it's irrecoverable. Yes. And one joke failing is very common. Like a lot of audience
don't even notice like that bomb. Cause you get, you know, you got so many jokes in a row. You can
sandwich a good one, then a bad one, then a good one. But when you bomb, it's almost like they chose,
we don't like you. Nothing you say will redeem yourself. And, uh, it's hard to get out of.
It's like being pulled down by your hair. You can't get back. I can't win this fight no matter
what. Can you like get him back by acknowledging like the elf in the room that like,
That helps, but they're still going to go. That was funny when he made fun of it, but
he sucks. He still sucks. He still sucks. That's the worst part. You're going, no, this is good.
You guys just don't like me. Just cause you don't like me. It doesn't mean I'm bad.
Yeah. I like going to open mics a lot. Just, just listening because
first of all, I think the audience in the open mic, at least the ones I've been to,
is, um, most I guess other comedians or like, at least people who don't seem to want to laugh
at anything. And so I just love it because it's human nature and perseverance that is best.
But here's comedians, like clearly, uh, this is mostly in Austin. They have a dream.
Like, why would you get up there? Right.
Right. Maybe some weird, you know, New Year's resolution bullshit, but for the most part,
it's people who want to be comedians. Like a lot of the open micers that people
who have clearly have done this for quite a long time, like at least a year or two,
maybe five years. And they're often not very funny. And, um,
um, the just bombing in front of an audience of like 20, where they're just sitting there,
like almost like mocking them with their eyes or maybe, and I don't know, and they still push
through. They still, they still like, as if they're doing an arena and everybody's laughing.
They still, they still got that energy trying almost like to an audience that doesn't exist.
Like an audience of their dreams. Cause I guess that you have to do that to keep the energy of
the act going. And it's just so beautiful to watch them try it. It's, uh, and also the,
what happens, open mic, I don't know, five minutes, whatever they do, they, you know,
walk off and that walk back, you know, off stage and like, you can't, what, who do they look at?
Like, what do you look at? Do you make eye contact with people? Do you look at your phone?
You look at your feet. You just zone out. You kind of kind of go white, you know,
you just hear white noise and go out. It's, it's tough, but you got it. You need a little,
a little delusion to be a comedian to get into it. It takes a little bit of delusion. Like,
you think you can do this, you know, you got 10 years ahead of you of hell and you're up for this.
And you know, most comics, we see a horrible crowd and we see our friend bomb and we go,
yeah, he's bombing, but I'll get him. I'll get him. And then you don't get him. But that's,
that's human nature too. It's like, they don't like him, but they're like me. And you need a
little of that to keep going as a comedian. But you don't want too much delusion because then
you're a psycho, but you need a little. Well, the psycho could be good for a comedy.
That's true too. Love psychos. I mentioned you offline, um, that talked to Elon and we talked
about doing standup that he's thinking maybe do a few minutes of standup. Say, if you need a coach,
Elon, I got you. Um, well, maybe you should move to Austin to coach him full time.
Hopefully they can fly me in. So what, what advice would you give to somebody who, um,
who wants to try and do five minutes, like the early steps of, uh, trying to go to an
open mic and say something funny? Well, that's the irony of comedy is, I don't know if it's irony,
but it's like the beginning is the hardest part. Usually the beginning is the easy part.
Hey, I'm playing this level of Mario. I'd start a jump over one Koopa Troopa, whatever.
And then the end is like, Jesus Christ, I got 30 guys coming at me. Comedy's the opposite. The
beginning is like, it's a gauntlet. It's just obstacles. And it's like you said, open mics.
You, I watch these famous comedians on Netflix and you go, this would all bomb an open mic.
They're killing in, you know, Radio City. This would bomb an open mic. That's the weird part.
So it's almost, you have to go through hell just to get to the, the promised land. And, uh, I would
say rehearse the shit out of it because you're going to get frazzled up there. Everybody thinks,
oh, this is good material, but you also forget about the other part of delivering it, having
confidence, being likable, having timing, having a cadence, figuring out who you are,
figuring out what the audience thinks you are or how they perceive you. Cause you can go up there
and say all this, but they go, why's the guy, he's clearly gay. Why is he actually not gay?
You know, that's all that. Now they're not listening to the joke. So like, you got to know
how you look. And, uh, it's just repetition, repetition and bombing is not failure. That's
what you got to remember. I mean, look, if you, if you do a, a killer hour and then you take it
to Netflix and bomb, you fucked up, but bombing is not failure. It's just data. It's going, oh,
okay, I got to read, retool that. That didn't work. Something wrong there. They missed a word there.
So you got to treat the, uh, the act almost like, uh, like, uh, like ingredients in a, in a, in a
cooking and a dish, you know, like, oh, that, I put too many eggs in, take an egg out. You got
to treat it like that. And look, when you pull a bad cake out of an oven, you go, I fucked up,
but it doesn't hurt your feelings. But when you bomb and fuck up, it hurts your feelings.
So you got to factor that into your feelings going to be hurt and just almost be a robot and
just keep going towards that open mic. You know how scary an open mic is? Bombing sucks, but bombing
in front of other comedians is way worse because they know what just happened and they could have
saved you and they didn't. So it's way worse. And they're going to be your quote unquote friends
for this journey. Yeah. No, these are evil people. Most twisted fucked up hurt people.
Can you tell like in those early days, let's just talk about that, like the open mic level,
that a joke is going to be good on paper. Like I'll give you my experience because, uh,
maybe you can be my coach in this particular moment.
Please. I feel like Larry Nasser. All right. That's fun, huh? Joking, everybody. I hope nobody
takes this seriously. There's, I now have an amazing team of folks who help me with editing
and they're now currently sweating. You gotta leave that one in. That was quick. Yeah, that's
pretty good. I'll eat that one. That was good. All right. So, you know, going in front of an
audience, just even to give a lecture terrifies me, which I've done, but open mic, I mean that to me,
perhaps that's why I like going open mics and listening is because I just, it terrifies me so
much that idea of going up there and bombing. I mean, it's scary and to do even like one minute
to be honest is scary and five minutes. I'm also watched enough open mics to realize that five
minutes is a long time. I mean, it depends on your comedy, but if you're doing fast stuff,
five minutes is a really long time. Oh, it's eternity. I guess with a long story, two is a
long time because if the story is not worth, you're building up to something. If the story is
going to fail, you just spent all that time telling the story that completely went flat.
Completely. Got nothing. I guess if you have a series of jokes, you can at least try to recover
and like do the Mitch Heidberg thing where like, all right, I'll cross that off. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Well, I'm able to, like I've tried to write a few things and I'm able to tell that it's really
bad. Well, that's better than most. Most people's egos kick in and go, no, this is good. No,
see, I'm able to introspect that. Like it seems funny. I mean, I guess the thing I'm looking for
is original. Like there's easy stuff that you think is funny, but to me, originality is the
thing you should be looking for because then that's what's actually becomes funny. Or rather,
if it's original, even if it bombs, that feels like more a beautiful art creation that you did.
Like at least you swung for it. Like you did something unique because even with open mic,
your first five minutes, there's so many, just go to enough open mics, you'll hear like all the,
there's like a list of jokes that you just go to. First of all, you can make fun of the fact that
you're at an open mic, that you're like doing this the first time and so on. You can do a lot
of stuff where you make fun of your appearance in some way and so on. But like, yeah, you could do that.
You know, that takes actually, that's way harder than people realize to do it in an original way.
Yes. To present who you are as a person, very quickly, enough to then put that person down in
front of everybody else. So you have to reveal the audiences like that because they go, he knows
what we're thinking. Yeah, exactly. But do it again in an original way. And so like when I'm
trying to write stuff, not that I've tried long, it's like 30 minutes, but as enough to see like,
oh, shit, to write something original is really difficult. It is. But do you got a bit? Anything?
No. You didn't write any one line or anything? For this? No. Well, just in general,
ever in your life, ever written a joke? Oh, yeah. Oh, okay. No, but I don't have anything in my
mind. So the jokes that I've written have more, like for some reason, my mind goes to like dark
places. And not actually dark in the Mark Norman dark because you go really dark to where it's
like almost absurd. My natural inclination is to go to like a dark historical place like Hitler
and Stalin and almost go to that place and then talk about something absurd there. So like don't
go like all the way, I don't know, I don't want to give examples because it'll be clipped, but
the Mark Norman style, look it up. He has a special on his YouTube. That kind. I want to almost
explore the dark aspects of human nature more kind of connected to actual historical figures.
That's the inclination. Like, I don't know, Nature's Metal, the Instagram channel that
explores like the darkness of nature, like something there. See, that's good that you already know
that you've kind of gotten to the core of your comedy already. And that's interesting. That's a
step ahead. Yeah, I can hear. I mean, with most things that I do in life, I can like hear the
music from a distance. Like in myself, like, okay, if you have anything, this is the direction it'll
be without actually knowing exactly all the steps. And that's a nice motivation to be like, all right,
well, if you do this for a long time, maybe you'll have a chance to get there. But you have to,
that's where it's a feature to be super self critical, I think. But then that's why
it's fucking terrifying to walk up to a stage, stand there and probably forget everything.
Yeah, that's the other part nobody thinks about. Just goes right out of your head. You go fight or
flight. It's ugly. My first years were horrific bombing, horrific stammering, horrific not
remembering the punchline. Like, you got to even maybe you got a little setup going and they're
kind of on board and you're like, ah, how's that camera? I can't remember how it goes. And you
just hate yourself. It's a nightmare. But you've already kind of, maybe if you haven't done stand
up or whatever, but you kind of know your voice. And that's, yeah, that's pretty advanced.
So you're not trying to be somebody else. I guess, yeah, just for having done like podcast and
lecture and so on. That helps. You've embarrassed, I've already done some of the work of the stand
ups do, which is embarrass yourself in front of others for prolonged periods of time. Yes. Yeah.
So I'd done that without actually developing the funny. Right, right, right. But maybe the funny
just is not that difficult to develop. No, it's super difficult, of course. But I mean, maybe
the essential work of a stand up comedian is just the embarrassment of like finding who you are.
Yeah, that's a part of it for sure. You know, in the beginning, you're like,
water bottle, what's funny about water bottle? I'm a funny guy. I can make this funny. But that's
not it. You know, it's, it's your shit, your shit, like your dark stuff. For me, I tend to gravitate
towards dark, but in a weird way where, you know, people will say like, Hey, don't objectify women.
But then they go, Caitlyn Jenner is beautiful. And you're like, well, wait,
I know something's off here. Why can you objectify her but not the supermodel? So what's going on
there? And I like to play with that. So I have this joke where I say, Caitlyn Jenner. Oh,
women go, Caitlyn Jenner is beautiful, beautiful woman. I go, well, you look like her and they go,
fuck you. And you're like, there's a lot of truth there. But I like exploring that kind of,
oh, you're trying to get one over on me or you're lying to yourself or what are we doing here?
And I like, I like that kind of comedy. I don't see color. Well, I'm black. No, you're not.
You know, that's fun because you're, you're lying.
Yeah. Okay. So like big time comedians, such as yourself, don't like to think of yourself in
this way. But yeah, this is like where you over philosophize comedy. But
Yeah, definitely. It seems like comedians.
Don't say important. Nothing worse than a comedian who thinks they're important.
Yeah. So I was going, I was trying to find, as I was trying to say these words, I realized
how cliche it is and how uninteresting it is. So I'm going to just, but there's something.
I'm worried this whole thing is uninteresting. I'm like, who cares about comedy? There's like
six comics on the planet. But nobody cares. Okay. I trust you in the, in the pilot seat.
You know what you're doing. You got, you got listeners. They've tuned out long ago.
They've tuned out long ago. Dan Carlin on here, huh? Is he around?
Yeah. We're just going back and forth on Twitter just now. He's a huge fan. He was on here before
he'll be back. I've been actually really trying to volunteer myself aggressively with Dan Carlin
for like a Russian episode where I could speak Russian. I, there's, there's certain documents
saying, I talked with Jaco about this too. Certain things. I mean, I just love the challenge of
bringing Russian documents that I can read in Russian and it can translate and can try to capture
the, the depth of the writing in, in the Russian language and communicate to the American audience.
So much has lost in translation. Like there's so much pain and poetry in the Russian language.
It's just connected to the culture. Every language, not every language, but many languages are
uniquely able to capture the culture of the people. I mean, in some way they're the representation
of the culture of the people. And so Russian is definitely that represents the full history
and culture of the 20th century with all the atrocities, all the, all the broken promises,
all those kinds of things. Norm says Russian literature is, it's the most tapped into human
existence than anything else. Norm. McDonald. Yeah. Big, big Russian literature guy.
Dostoevsky, all that shit. It's funny that there is a gap with comedians too. There's a culture
of Russian comedy, like standup comedians that are told. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know these Russians.
I mean, I don't know today. I mean, more from the 80s and 90s. And there was a.
Yakov. That's all I know. That's not, so there's like, of course, that's, that's.
I've never seen that offended. No, no, no, it's not offended. There's a different,
there's like the kinesons and the, there's the edgy. Is that Russian? What do you mean?
Wait, I thought you said there was Russian comics. Yeah, Russian. I mean, I'm comparing them.
For style. I'm giving you, I'm giving you like a style of darkness. Like that's the kind of people
that kind of challenge. They give again, this is to how important comedians are, is they give a
voice to people where in the Soviet Union, you really can't like express your opposition to
the government. And so comedians are exceptionally important there for just, just, I don't know,
channeling the anger, even when sometimes it's not the actual opposition to the government,
they're just channeling the anger, the frustration with the absurdity of life. Like,
you know, when there's a shortage of food, shortage of jobs, the absurdity of the bureaucracy,
like the top heavy government, just all of that can only sometimes be expressed with like dark,
absurd humor. And that actually, why there's a culture of that kind of humor, you know,
you gather on the table with vodka and all you can do is just talk shit and just
be offensive, say horrible shit, ball bust. I mean, I make school shooting jokes and people
go, how do you do that? I'm like, well, maybe that's how I deal with it. Yeah. You know,
like how come I gotta, I gotta empathize the way you do. Maybe we're different.
All right. So now let's skip the whole open mic thing and crafting jokes.
Oh, that's tough.
Kerouac said, one day I will find the right words and they will be simple.
When do you know the joke is done? It's perfect. You're somebody that does like
really sharp, like fast jokes. Well, so like there's somebody, I don't know,
I don't know who you see yourself in the same school as like your darker and faster than
Hedberg, I think, in terms of like, just, I don't know, the turns you take are very...
Thanks. I appreciate it. I think I got some Norm McDonald and maybe...
Norm, that's right.
You know, obviously Norm, but Chris Rock was huge for me. Chris, old like 90s, Chris Rock was like,
I didn't know you could do jokes like that. I always loved George Carlin and Groucho Marx and
Bill Murray. There's so many different types of comedy, but when I saw the bigger and blacker
bring the pain, I was like, oh my God, this is like, it hit me. So that was big. And then
Norm's just like the funniest guy on the planet. So him being the smartest guy in the room,
but acting dumb was great. So yeah, Chris Rock has that way of cutting to the bullshit,
which I mentioned earlier. I like that cutting through the bullshit kind of style of comedy,
because you kind of go, oh, I'm not crazy. That's what I thought too. I was too scared to say,
but I thought that and he's saying it in a room of people are laughing. Maybe I'm not an idiot.
So that helped me.
So it's observational, but not Jerry Sineff observational. It's like going to the darker
thing within society.
But I like him too, but seeing it, doing it about stuff like in your life, society.
Yeah. Race, gender, government, politics, all that kind of stuff.
Exactly. Exactly. Sex, human emotions, jealousy, whatever it is. That's the good stuff.
How'd you feel when Norm passed away?
That was a bummer because he was, you know, what, 61? And I just didn't see it
coming. And I just, I've watched so many hours of his stuff and I've met him and he's like,
he was like this comedic bar, like, hey, we got Norm. You know, there's so much
shit comedy. Then you see Norm and you're like, this is next level. This is savant type shit.
And then to lose him is like, ah, Norm had 20 more years at least of just content and content
and thoughts and his point of view. And that's, we'll never get that. And that sucks.
Yeah. There is something about artists like Jimi Hendrix dying too early. It's like, you wonder
what was next. Yeah, what was next. But then part of it is like,
you know, it all ends for all of us. And it's like walking away early is,
it's kind of admirable. It's almost like I did a pretty good job. Yeah. I'm good with that.
And especially the way he did, which is not telling anybody. I know,
nine years, his best friends didn't even know. And in this world of like victim hood,
and I need clicks and I need people to love me. He could have, he got, you know, canceled and
yelled at and in trouble. And he could have pulled that cancer card and he never did. I mean,
the integrity on this motherfucker. Did you get a chance to interact with him? Like what,
how often did you meet him? I met him once at the comedy cellar and we chatted for five minutes.
And then he went on and did the letterman set that he did. He was running the letterman set.
And sweet guy, nice guy. I didn't know him that well, but I mean, he's just brilliant.
And I also love a brilliant guy who does stupid stuff. That's a fun, fun little combo there.
Like silly guys who are actually brilliant. Also, you know, like Louis CK is a brilliant
comic and he'll do a joke about farting on a kid. And you're like, that's great that he still
finds farts funny. And he's also this comedic genius guy. I like that.
And doesn't really acknowledge the genius. Yeah. Yeah. I like smart people. They're silly.
Yes. That's a good combo. Like you said, Elon is silly. Yeah. Yeah, that's great. Yeah.
Because we taught, we teach kids like, Hey, put that down, stop that, quit cutting up,
quit horsing around. But maybe that's some kind of sign of brilliance there.
Yeah. Being like childlike and silly is a kind of wisdom. I feel like those people are way wiser
than the people that no offense to me wear a suit and take themselves away too seriously.
No, but you got a spark in you. A little bit. You got a little, what's the word?
Not elf. Imp. A little imp in you. Give that a go. You know what imp?
Yeah, let's look at this. It's like a little. Is that a Tolkien character? Imp. Yeah,
might be. An imp is the European mythological being similar to a fairy or a demon. He called
me a fairy. Well, okay. Similar to a fairy or a demon. I feel like that's a big leap.
Big leap. Yeah, that's not a great info bio there. Frequently described in folklore and
superstition. The word may perhaps derive from the term imp, spelled with a Y.
You used to denote a young grafted tree. It's a little mischievous. You got a twinkle.
You're this serious buttoned up guy, but this is a twinkle. There's a twinkle.
Wow. And the audience can see the twinkle. And that's why he resonate, I think.
Oh, sorry. Deep analysis by Mark Norman. Psychological analysis. Okay. But then
back to the crafting of the joke, you said Chris Rock and Norman Donnell, like what for you?
How do you know when the joke is like done? Are there some jokes when you're like,
are proud of like, wow, that's, that's well done. Yeah. Yeah. The joke is done. It's a tough question
because there's so many different kinds of jokes. It's what we call a chunk, which is a big idea
with a bunch of jokes in the middle of it and then a big crescendo at the end. Or there's a one liner
or there's a tag of a joke that's also a joke. So the joke's coming different.
Like I have a joke where I say, I met my girl on that Jewish app. What's that Jewish app called?
A PayPal. Nice. That's what the rest you want from the crowd. But it's a fun turn because you
say your thing and then I hit you with a misdirect. And that's what a joke is. If joke is basically
me saying something that makes sense, but you didn't see it coming. Yeah. And that's a perfect
example of that. So that joke took forever to figure out, by the way, you know, and you have to go
to different services like PayPal. What's funniest? Exactly. And I figured PayPal is funny because it
has the word pay in it. Yeah. You know, Venmo. It's also not really a good word. Venmo PayPal.
It just hits better. Yeah. PayPal is funnier somehow. It's funnier somehow. And that's the
beauty of comedy. There's a weird little magic into it. You can get technical all day and formulaic,
but there's still that little bit of a fairy dust that you don't know why this is funnier.
Or imp dust. Imp dust. Yes. For the why. Okay. So you know what joke is done when it kills and
it is a roundness to a joke when you feel like this is buttoned up. This is done here. It's
simplicity the right word there. Yeah. Is it like you're chopping stuff away or you're adding
stuff? Like what does it feel like? Simplicity is always the best angle. I mean, you can get
real high concept with a joke and still make it work, but the simpler, the better. I saw
Dave Chappelle on stage once and Chris Rock and Demetri Martin were in the back watching
in awe. And Dave Chappelle, I can't remember the joke, but he said something about sex or women.
And Demetri Martin goes, eh, it's a little easy. And Chris Rock goes, that's why it's good. And I
remember hearing that as a young comic like, I'm getting this like, you know, comedy lesson right
here for these two Titans. And so that was fun. Simple is key. So the easy is okay. That's such
a weird, I think I remember reading or hearing Eminem say something about maybe the song,
one of the songs, he's like, I knew it was going to be good because it got like really repetitive
and annoying very quickly. I mean, that's the sort of the music equivalent of it's too easy.
Like if it's like super catchy as a musician, you might get very quickly bored of it. Or like as
you're creating it now, it's too, it's too easy. It's like, there needs to be some more complexity
to it. But I like complexity, but the best guys who are the ones who make complex shit look simple.
Like you ever heard that, uh, Ben Franklin story where he's talking to his friend, his friend's
like, I'm going to start a hat store. So he puts a sign out says hats for sale, $12. And Ben
Franklin looks at it goes, uh, well, you don't need the $12 because you know, all they need to know
is that you got hats for sale. He's like, all right. So he loses the $12 makes a new sign hats
for sale. And he goes, you know, you don't really need for sale because it's a business. People
can put that together. So he just goes, all right, it makes a new sign. It says hats. And then Ben
Franklin's like, you know, you don't really need the word hat. You can just put a picture of a hat.
And he made a new sign, just a picture of a hat and like help the business or something. This is
like some old wives tale or whatever. But I think about that all the time when I'm writing, I thought
this was going to like, there was no sign. It went like super like, that could work too.
What like as a comedian, some, I'm a fan of yours. I enjoy, I really enjoy you in conversations.
Like, because you're now getting nothing out of this. All right. I can't like emotion.
You're tough not to read cold inside. I mean, just the quickness you have. Obviously,
you're also a great standup comedian. What's your favorite medium to shine in? So you have a
podcast yourself, an excellent podcast. Thanks. You're often a podcast guest. Yeah.
Which is always fun to listen to how you're going to deal with the different people.
You're great on Rogan. Oh, thanks. What, what do you enjoy most?
Podcasts are great because you can, you can stretch out a little more. You can breathe a
little, you know, with a standup set. I like to be like, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. But
podcasts are great because it's conversational. So you can be, it's almost like you're being
funny with your friends. Whereas the stage is like a, this is a piece. This is a presentation.
But I think the, the podcast is great, but you don't get the reaction unless the host is laughing.
You can't hear the guy in his car in New Jersey driving to work on, ah, every now and
I'll read a comment like, I spit out my coffee when you said this. And I'm like,
but it's not immediate. You want the immediate. So standup will always be number one, but there's
no better feeling than killing in a room of people who don't know who you are strangers.
You're in the middle of nowhere. You left your wife at home. You left your kids. You left your
house. You're in the middle of bumfuck, Dickville and murdering for these hillbilly, nobody,
whatever it is. And they're slinging their beers and cheering you on and they carry out and you
fuck some fat lady and you leave and you get back to your hotel and you go, holy shit. What was that?
No one will ever know about it. Just lost in the ether. That's the best feeling. Yeah. Killing
an obscurity is Bill Burwood say. Yeah. This is one of the things that sucks about giving lectures
like at universities or giving lectures in general is when you look at the audience,
you know, several hundred students, they all have a bored look on their face. Yeah, of course.
Like even like my, my face now probably looks bored, but I'm actually excited to be talking to you.
But there's something about just, there's something about a comedy club. Maybe this is the
contingent of laughter, but like it gives people the freedom to just laugh, to like,
to remove the facade of like, you don't have to, you don't have to pretend like you don't care.
Like if you care, you can show it and have fun with it. Probably liquor is helpful too.
It helps for sure. But there is a, especially, and that's why comedy I think is so popular
right now because HR is up our ass. We're scared of old tweets that might come back to haunt us.
What did I say on that interview? Even people at offices are like, I put something on Facebook
in 1999. That was about fat tits that I liked. Should I get rid of that? Even people say like,
there's no cancel, whatever. There is something in the air right now and that wasn't there before.
Yeah. It's the video. I'm a Karen. I got caught at Trader Joe, whatever it is. This,
people rat on each other now. Everybody's tattletailing because they want the clicks. It's
a horrible society we've crafted. But stand up comedy gets you to come out and now people do
it at stand up shows too, sadly, but it gets you to come out and let that inhibition down.
Like, because we're all human. We've all had the fucked up thoughts like, man, that guy's fat as
shit. It doesn't mean you hate the guy. It doesn't mean you hate fat people. It doesn't mean you're fat
shaming, but you can't say that at the office. You can't go, Bob, you're fat as shit. You'll get
fired for body shaming. But at the club, you go, that guy's fat as shit. The crowd goes, he is
fat as shit. And it's this weird cathartic thing because all we do is tamp shit down.
It's kind of like you ever meet a girl who's like all prim and proper in the bedroom. She's like,
put a lamp up my ass, you know, whatever it is. It's because we got to get it out. We're all
repressed in some way. So I guess what you're saying is comedy is important.
Yes. Callback. Go play it, sir. What do you think about Austin? What do you think about the comedy
scene, Austin? We'll talk about LA, New York. What do you think about what Joe's trying to create
there? So I should say that the reason I moved to Austin, I have this dream of, it wouldn't be
funny if I said this dream of becoming a comedian. An audience at least. Yeah, that's true. You know,
I would say you can hear the music in the distance. I have this dream around robotics and
artificial intelligence, whether it's a company, whether it's something else that I was just pulling
me to do. I actually wanted to move to San Francisco and then all my friends in San Francisco said,
no, it's the wrong place. At this time, the cynicism there is just not conducive to taking
big leaps into the unknown, excited about the future kind of thing. And Austin was that,
for me in particular with Elon Musk, but also just the energy that everybody had,
including Joe, the excitement about the future. I don't care if Austin burns to the ground and
it actually is a complete failure. Being excited about the future seems to be like optimism about
the future. It seems to be the thing that actually makes that future happen, makes a great future
happen. So it's always cool for me to see Joe super excited about creating a culture in Austin,
making it a comedy hub. I don't want to overstate it, but I think he really believes it'll be a
very big place for comedy in the United States in general in the world. And so just even believing
that, that's powerful. You start to make it happen. That energy is there. Anyway, so that's
for me from just an outsider watching the fun of it. I should also mention for less of an outsider,
more insider in the martial arts world, partially probably because of Joe, I'm not sure, like John
Donahar, Gordon Ryan, the B team, all those folks, that might be gibberish to you, but those are
like some of the greatest grapplers and martial artists of all time. So it's also becoming this
hub of martial arts. So the whole thing is just beautiful. Anyway, what are your thoughts about
that scene? Well, there's a lot here, a lot of things to mention. One, I think Joe did do that
to a degree. Like all these people with Segura lives there now. A lot of comics live there.
He's opening clubs. Other clubs are opening. I think it's happening. That's the other thing is
people go, everybody's moving to Austin. Austin's the new hub. And then they look at their watch
and they go, five minutes went by, nothing changed. It's going to take years, but everybody wants it
now, now, now. Well, Austin, there's no industry there. There's no Netflix, whatever. And you're
like, yeah, I know, but it needs a minute. You can't just do this overnight. So people forget
that. So it could happen huge. Just give it some time. I mean, he's opening a club. I went and
saw it. It's incredible. Like it's so perfect for comedy. It's every detail. It's incredible. But
so it could happen still. I do think there's a little biting off more than they can chew with
Austin because it's not that big. It's spread out. I mean, yeah, it's not big. And the infrastructure
is not quite there to support it. But it has a lot of, you know, comparing from the tech side,
it has a lot of land to expand into. So it might become this. That helps.
Like you're basically establishing, it's kind of like New York. You're establishing these whole
neighborhoods. And you have the freedom to do that because there's a lot of space on all sides.
Yes. Okay. So that helps. So again, maybe some time. I do agree with this, that new hope that's
kind of built into human beings of like, let's go to America. Let's go to the utopia. We even have
it with space. Let's go to Mars. We got to see what's over there. And it's just red, dusty bullshit.
But you still got to go. So I'm with you on that about this new hope, this new land.
And I think that is beautiful. And I think there's a lot of haters. I think there's a lot of
naysayers who hate change, who hate anything new. And then I think you got to go, Hey,
that hurts. That sucks. But blow me dickless. I'm trying something. You're a loser. Stop hating on
me. I mean, how many people hate Elon Musk, you know? Yeah, it's hilarious. I mean, there's some
of the criticism on Austin would be, it's like a fad. Like a lot of people are really people are
excited about Austin. And somehow that's like, it's like when Green Day became famous, you no
longer want to be a fan of Green Day. But to me, like this. Austin was already a cool town. Like
every comic five years ago was like, Oh, I got Austin this weekend. I can't wait. So it already
had a buzz. But some people think maybe the buzz was the cool part. The fact that it was like this
off the beaten path city. And now I get to visit it and then leave. But I think it could still be
this comedy tech booming place. It just will take some time and people want it right now. Well,
on the tech side, it's, it's already there. It's getting there very fast. So I mean, Elon's really
pushing that with the factory. It's just a huge number of people are moving there with jobs.
Like you're already starting. And then the opportunities to launch new companies is just
incredible. I guess it's not right now. It's like within months, within a year, that kind of thing.
But like, it's an opportunity to just start to build shit in a new place. And it's cool. It's
kind of like, you know, go to Mars, like we get to start over. Yeah. And I like the hope aspect.
I think that's huge for people. And I'm all for it. I hope it works out. I don't know if it will.
But I don't know anything about economies and city scans, planning and all that shit. So it
might be too early to say, but I hope it works. He's still talking about Austin or Mars?
Austin. Mars is, there's nothing there. There's no vagina there. There's no food there. There's no
water there. I don't know. It seems, I get space travel. I think it's important, but I don't know
Mars is really going to move the needle. So what are your thoughts about Elon Musk and SpaceX and
launching rockets into space? I think it's all good because you could say, Hey, we could just
feed everybody. And I was like, Yeah, that's true. By the way, these guys give a ton of money to like
philanthropy shit that nobody cares about. By the way, you know, it's weird. Like he could feed Nigeria
and with pocket change of his and you're like, Well, maybe he has, you know, like I heard Bill
Gates gave back so much money to save 6 million lives. But that's a reverse Holocaust, by the way.
That's pretty good. What have you done? You're a barista. So, you know, I just think I think
space travel is good because you learn about the place you're living in from going to space.
It kind of helps you learn about this more. You could say, What's the point of going to
this other there? But it does help, I think. Yeah, doing difficult things in the engineering space
seems to be a way to develop like as a, as almost like an accident, as a side effect of doing a
really difficult thing in a team of brilliant people, you develop things like the internet.
And you could argue that the internet maybe is not so good for society. No, I'm just kidding.
That's good and bad. Yeah. But it's like a pull up. You're trying to get your bicep going. But
hey, before you know, you got decent forearms, but you weren't working on the forearms. You
wanted to buy, but you got the four. And I think that's kind of what space travel is.
I like how this like pivoted into a workout routine advice.
I'm trying to get an analogy going here. All right. They work pretty well.
I'll take it. All right. What are your thoughts about, since I'm a robotics person,
I'd be curious to see like what do you think about the space at all about first of all,
autonomous vehicles with Tesla autopilot and Waymo self driving car. I'm not sure if you're
familiar with all the autonomous vehicles and so on. So those are robots on wheels.
And then there's also legged robots. So next time you're in Austin,
you get to meet some of the legged robots I've been working on. And I find those kind of
a fascinating way to explore the nature of intelligence in our computers, but also explore
our own intelligence and also explore our own like what makes us connect to other
living beings, whether it's dogs, cats, or other humans. Like there's some magic there
that's beyond just intelligence. And like when I have the robot dog, there's some aspect to it
that, I don't know, brings me joy in a way that a dog does, in a way that a good friend does.
Oh, that's interesting. And I'm not sure if that's some kind of anthropomorphism,
like where I'm projecting my hopes for this, what this thing is, but it's kind of built in.
I mean, it's just a source of joy. Maybe it's connected to the fact that there's just like
a loneliness within all of us, within me. And it's just nice to have other things in your life
that move, that recognize you, that kind of thing. I mean, I suppose it's nice to even just have a
plant. Yeah, it is plant goes a long way. You see a guy with plants in his apartment, it changes
the apartment because they're alive. You got a water room, you got to put sun on them. So yeah,
I think there's something there. And I think you can see people's reactions when you show them
them advanced technology, like these dog robots, or these robots that dance and shit, people are
like, what the fuck, like it hits home in some way, whether it's fear or you want to fuck them
clearly, whatever it is, but it does connect with you in some way. So I'm with you. And I think
this is why I don't think robots will take over. You always hear that robot, they're making them
too advanced, they're going to wipe us out, blah, blah, blah. If robots get at human emotions,
that is scary because they could, they could get mad at us and kill us and they're stronger,
they don't need sleep, they don't need food, they don't need water, they don't get jealous,
you know, but if they have emotions, then I think we can dominate them because who's had
emotions, who knows emotions better than us. We've got thousands of years of evolutionary
emotional bullshit. We can go, hey, robot, I heard you, your wife fucked that black and
decker, huh? They're going to crumble. We can bully them. Emotionally manipulate robots. Yes,
that's when we'll win. Right now, they could kill us, they could just, we'd all die, then we shoot
them back, that's no good. But if they do get emotions, then we can go, hey, you look like
hell, what is that, a rusty bolt? Hey, you're dropping some oil there, you know, you loser.
I think we can win if they do get emotions. This goes back to your father being able to
undercut you with a single word. You're right. Yeah, so we're the creators of the robots and
then the robots will just, you would say the exact thing where the robot would be like,
that son of a bitch. And then it goes back to his hole and just sits there miserable.
Right, yeah, hardware looks more like software to me. You can't get it up. Yada, yada, yada.
Yeah. But I'm not worried about robots and I think self, what do you think about the
self driving cars? Is that just wiping out the horse and buggy? Isn't that just progression
of technology? Yeah, so I don't know if you've driven it in a Tesla, for example. I have,
I wrote in the, uh, the past drive it. Yeah, there's several stages in that. I think it's the
problem is way harder than people realize. And for quite a while, it'll just make driving more
pleasant. It'll make it less stressful. It'll take over some of the boring bits for you and make
it easier. Like there's something that happens actually when the car is driving for you in
the following way. Like it's, it's staying in the lane. It's keeping distance to the car in front
of you. Maybe it's changing lanes. It allows you to relax a little bit. Like you become,
you still have to be alert, but you become like a passenger and you get to like take in the world.
I mean, somehow that's more relaxing without making you necessarily like bored more. It's
energizing more. So I just think it makes the driving experience more pleasant. But when you
actually fully automate cars, when you can just completely tune out and start reading a book
or go to sleep, that might change, uh, society like in ways we don't even understand because you'll
have, I mean, the, the, you'll probably change the nature of roads because the cars, because now
you can be super productive. And so no longer quite matters to you as much how long it takes to get
from point A to point B because you're not wasting that time. You just continue working. Yeah. It's
like public transit that comes to you. Exactly. And so they, there will be maybe less roads and
bigger roads and it will just change the nature of how we get from point A to point B. I think
you're right. But then couple that also with the fact that we seem to be more and more comfortable
existing in the digital world. Yeah. So like maybe we won't want to go outside more and more.
We'll just interact with each other virtually. And I don't mean Zoom meetings. I mean, just
in other ways that's, uh, that's, that's more fulfilling than a Zoom meeting. But then maybe
not because like there's something deeply uncompelling about Zoom meetings. Like podcasts
that are remote, unless they're super information dense, at least to me as a podcast fan, kind of
suck. They suck. There's no connected. It goes back to the dog thing with the Zoom. There's no
connection. Yeah. And we're not, you know, I don't understand why they're, we're not even making eye
contact. I know, but it's just something there. It's in the room. There's pheromones and that's
like out of our understanding probably. It's just some kind of weird biological, you know,
you ever have Cheerios in a bowl? The Cheerios tend to, they tend to go together. You see a
cluster of Cheerios. They're never really hanging out on the other side. And that's kind of how
people are in real life. I wonder what the physics of that is. So they, they, they come
together and they stick. There's somebody with molecules. Yeah. I don't know, I can't remember
what it was, but it was fascinating. And I think that's how people are. And I think you try to
write a TV show or, or craft a movie with your team, Zoom, nothing there. It's like phone sex
versus penetration. One day you'll learn that. I, I know nothing of either the, I look forward
because I think there's a phone sex Netflix documentary that this is show or something
like that, that is really popular. I want to go watch. At least I can learn about that.
Okay. I could send you some links on the internet. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, self driving car,
I think it's just inevitable it's coming and these truckers are going to have to figure something out.
Yeah. I mean, that's, that's an under understood industry actually, because there's not,
there's a lot of trucking jobs and people don't want to, well, people don't want to actually
take them anymore because it's such a difficult job. So it won't have, or a lot of people believe
it won't have as big of a negative impact as folks anticipate. There'll be other automation.
I think they'll have a huge impact. Yeah. For sure. I mean, you already see it in McDonald's,
you go to the beep, beep, beep. Why do you want to get yelled at by the heavy set woman of color,
you know, for making a bad order when you can just, you know, hit the screen.
But those interactions I think are human. I mean, that's part of life. So it is scary taking away
everything. How long till we're not fucking? That's common too. Yeah. Then there's going to have two,
two types of people. Are you a fuck in real life? Are you a digital fuck person? I'm a digital. I
like real fucking. Sorry, we can't date. That's common. Well, there's also the, the reproduction
side of sex, which is like with genetic engineering, you'll be able to specify a little bit of
details. I talked to Jamie Mertzo about that, like where you can specify, like,
you know, it'll start with like, I want my child not to have like a high likelihood of diabetes
or something like that. And then you get to specify like intelligence is get to specify those kinds
of parameters until you're like basically trying to create a perfect human and you lose some of
the magic of the flaws that make us who we are. Yes. And, you know, I'm pretty sure in the full
lineup of humans, like, so let me give you some information. I'm sure you researched this thoroughly,
but a male of the human species of the Homo sapien produces 500 billion sperm cells in a lifetime. So
that's all some more than others. That's all uniquely genetically unique humans that you could
produce. So even across those 500 billion, you can select. And so I mean, like abort some or no,
you can choose which of them you want. I mean, just imagine all the genetic possibilities that
are there, like all the possible like you won the race. Yes. Shocking. This is all the 500
billion. You have to imagine what the competition was. Oh, just tarts all day long handicap.
Well, so it's not actually the fastest sperm or like it's I think a lot of his timing and luck.
That's what it seems like. There's actual papers on this and I've actually been reading them. I
hope so. So it's not just like the fastest sperm to the egg. Okay. There's a timing thing. So you
were just lucky. All right. I believe that. So it's interesting to think about like once you're
able to specify some parameters of what your child is like, how that changes the nature of
even just like the intimacy of two humans getting together and making creating together a child.
Yeah. I mean, it changes it. It's almost like, I don't know, it becomes like a factory
line of some kind. If you don't meet naturally. Yeah. If you don't meet naturally and then you
don't and you get to optimize your child, then it's yeah, then it's something like you have to
consider utilitarian type of things like what's good for society and it'll probably be regulation
about what kind of children you can have and not like your child cannot have an IQ below this or
above this or something like that. Your child cannot. We already kind of do that with VIP clubs
like you're kind of ugly or women go, Hey, he's not tall enough. We kind of do it a little.
Yeah. Especially sexually. Yeah, we do. Can't get on the roller coaster if you're this short,
whatever it is, you know, we do it in some capacity. But here, this would be like
fully transparent and to a degree that it's hard to imagine. Like the way we currently do it,
you can at least get around it. Yes. You can at least like trick your way onto the roller coaster
even if you're short. Right. Or the fat guy can get rich so he can get laid. You know, there's other
ways. At the risk of asking the totally wrong person this question, what advice would you
give to young people today in high school and college about how to have a successful career
or career that they're proud of or maybe have a life that they're proud of?
Well, first of all, you got to be, you got to want a life you're proud of. Not everybody has
any integrity. A lot of people just want short money. I want to feel good, look good right now.
I want to do Molly. Boom. I'll feel good, you know, but you should space it out. It's almost
like saving money so you can use it later. Nobody wants to save money. What do they say? Like 11%
of America actually has money saved? A thousand dollars or some shit? It's wildly low. Everybody
wants it now, now. What do you call it? Immediate gratification. I think the key to happiness and
satisfaction is working for something. Even if it's, it's like a baby. If you could have a baby
in five minutes, if a woman, you got to, you jizzed in her and she had a baby, oh five minutes,
boom, newborn, healthy. I think you'd be more likely to throw it away if you could make it that
quick. It's the fact that you spent nine months backbreaking the labor, the lactating, the ripped
placenta and the hymen or whatever the fuck. That's what makes you love it. And I think it's the same
with comedy or, or making money or whatever. Look at these kids who, who like child stars,
they all become heroin addicts at like 22 because they've just, their sensors are burned out,
their pleasure sensors. You didn't have to earn it. I think earning it is a big part of life
and always try to do better, try to do more, try to learn new things. Hey, I'm bored, life sucks,
life, play the piano then you chuch, but you, you won't do it because it takes effort and, and
failure and all that, but that's the good part. And I know it's hard to see. So I think that's,
that's a good, good key to life is work hard at something you care about and then love the result.
The, the hard work, the journey is actually way more important than just getting something.
Everybody wants to go on Amazon. I got a package. Then you feel good for 10 seconds and let's go
on Amazon again. And then you just, it's just a dumb cycle of you being disgusting and gluttonous.
So work for it. Everybody wants to take steroids and just, I'm buff.
What'd you point at me? Well, I'm just saying Russian or what?
Well, I saw the, the Icarus, but no, I'm not saying you're on Roy's. I'm just, you'd be way bigger,
but I'm just saying, you know, work for something. And then I would also, young people eat shit early,
eat shit early. I know a guy who kind of got canceled or whatever, and he had an out early,
but he tried to get by and he tried to ride it and it all came crumbling down. But if he had
eaten it early, like, yeah, I fucked up. I did that, whatever it was, he would have, he would
have just kind of been, been shit on for a month and then it would have gone away. But now it's
his whole identity and that sucks. So eat shit early. And I know it's hard to see what I mean
early. I'm in the present, but look ahead, look back. This time will pass. I mean, look at high
school. High school was the biggest thing in our lives. Oh my God, this exam. Susie Q hates me.
The football player beat me up. I'll never recover. Now you don't even think about high school. It's
just a blip in your dumb life, you know? And that's what this is now. This will just be a blip.
So remember that and work towards something and work hard and care about the result. If the result
isn't good, try it again. And failure is not always bad. Failure, we look at failure as this
end all be all. My life's over. I failed, but failure is really just learning. So that's something.
So in summary, eat shit early and eat shit often. Yes. All right. Mark Norman. Eat ass.
That's escalated quickly. All right. I have a list of random questions for you. What activities
make you lose track of time? Oh, have that go into that zone. You have this happiness
contentment about you that you just truly enjoy. Yeah. I think good conversation. I'll sit at
the comedy cellar with friends, maybe a little whiskey's flowing. And when you're really just
vibing and inhibiting. You can do it. What is it? Inhibited. Uninhibited. When you're just
vibing and you're uninhibited and you're saying crazy shit and you're laughing and you're not
worried, am I seeming cool right now? Am I seeming likable? When you're just you 100% and it's all
coming out of you and then they're saying stuff and you go back and forth and you feel that excitement.
Oh, they're talking, but I want to say my thing. And you know, you get all keyed up. I love that.
And I look at my watch and I'm like, fuck, it's three in the morning. We've been talking for five
hours. So I love that. That makes the time fly by. Also, I bought a, speaking of self driving cars,
I bought a 1973 BMW car and it's classic and it's stick shift and it's grizzly and gritty and
rusty and it's a bucket of bolts, but I love driving it. Bucket of bolts. Yeah. You're in
town ways, you're poets. Have you taken like a long trip anywhere, like road trip in your life
or with this BMW? Not with it. It's pretty new, but I will. It's a new 1997. Yeah. It's new to me.
And it just, it goes in the face of everything we're doing now. Everything is digital. Everything
is automated. Everything is hands off. Everything is delivered and this is the most hands on thing
in the world. And I am dialed in, man. I got the tachometer. I keep an eye on that. Oh, I made,
I put the wrong gear and shit. Oh, it's about to stall. Put some gas, put some clutch and it's all
just brainpower and staying in focus and all that. And it's the opposite of tweeting and texting
and watching porn or whatever. So I almost needed that in my life. So I bought this car just to have
this little exercise. I hope you don't mind that I'm just trying out random questions I wrote on
you that are completely, they're like completely insane. I'm a guinea pig, jizz in my face.
Break it on, baby. This would be edited down to five minutes. If everyone on earth disappeared
and it was just you left, what would your days look like? What would you do? That's tough because
I'm already an introvert and I try to avoid people mostly. Like I won on one, but crowds and all that
is tough. So basically unchanged. Yeah. That's what I was going to say. But then that's the irony is
I would be so sad to not talk to anybody. So it's this weird, bitter sweet thing. But I don't know
what I would do, man. I guess it's kind of like when you're hungover, you just go into the primal
survival mode. I got to get food. I need water. I'm horny. Jerk off. You just go, you're not like
playing the piano or painting or at the gym. So I think I would just go in urges, man. Primal urges.
Find food. Store food. Am I safe? Make weapons. Build a shelter that I can't get attacked in.
I would go all survival mode. And then once I maybe realize if I was safe or not, there's no wild
roaming dogs. I would start exploring and maybe somehow get a vehicle and I would try to expand
and that would be it. And I maybe had journal. Exploring what to try to find new experiences.
New life. If there's other, maybe there is another guy out there. Oh, so always there's
the possibility. Yeah. Hope. And then maybe there's a better place I could live. Let's find that and
then moving on. Maybe there's more food over here. So yeah, the hope would drive me. But it would be
bleak and sad and horrible also. So what you're saying is you really want other people to be there
so you can hide from them. Yes. Well said. All right. What's the item on your bucket list that
you haven't done yet? Think about something you'd be very upset if you died and you haven't done.
Well, I'm terrified of having kids just because I'm a child myself and I'm selfish and lazy in a
way. So kids are like, this is your whole life now. This is it. You got to not let this thing die.
You got to love it. You got to raise it. So kids scare the shit out of me, but I also feel like
if I don't have them, I'll regret it. Well, you've seen so many people like you who are fundamentally
changed by kids. It's a source of happiness even though you didn't anticipate it. Yeah.
So you penciled it into your bucket list. Yes. It might be on there. Okay. You want kids?
Yeah. Well, I want kids. I want to get married. I want to have kids. I don't like choice.
So in the following way, I appreciate the value of scarcity and the power of scarcity.
I don't like the modern dating culture. It's not some religious thing, whatever. I just like
one girl for a long time or at least swinging for that always, like swinging for the fences.
Well, you could be swinging right now. There's a different use of the word swinging. Sure,
sure. But I'm saying you could be, you look great, you're handsome, muscular. Thank you.
You get the job done. So I feel like you wouldn't leave without an orgasm on her.
Yeah. But I just like to, you know, about furries. I like to dress up as animals and
I just have trouble finding others who like the same. They're out there. I could show you some
chat rooms. You're also my coach for the internet. Okay. What are you most afraid of?
I guess on Unlived Life. I'm always a big fan growing up of like wild guys, you know,
like these Teddy Roosevelt's who would go out and hunt lions and like bar fighting guys. I was
obsessed with Hunter S. Thompson types. And look, this is what I love about guys like,
who's a good example, like Hemingway. Hemingway was the manliest guy. He had the rifle and the
elephant gun and the whiskey and the riding and the women and the fistfights. But people forget
at the other side of that coin is I'm sure he was in a lot of hotel rooms weeping. I'm sure he was
lonely as fuck. I'm sure he had some wicked hangovers. I mean, he killed himself for Christ's
sake. So obviously he was dealing with something. So the key to me is having this adventurous life,
living to the fullest, doing crazy shit, scaring yourself, but also not killing yourself. Like
also not hating because I used to party a lot hard. I used to bang a lot of gals and the flip
side is like, this girl hates you now or you got herpes or you're hungover or your mom is like,
where are you? You never call me anymore. You're like, oh, my mom. Let ties go with my mom. I
got to connect. So there's a horrible side to the party animal. The Keith Richards, we don't see,
is not pretty. I mean, he's already weird looking, but he's partying, he's smoking, he's living,
but there's another side of that coin. And I think the key to life is living that fucking crazy,
awesome, badass life and also having some meaning and a little bit of what's the word,
not just not killing yourself, not going sad, not being depressed. There's a medium there,
a sweet spot. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. So taking big leaps and
having way, grabbing life by the balls, but at the same time not crushing the balls that metaphor
work at all. Perfect. Look, evil can evil. We all know him. What a badass, fearless. Oh,
man, what a cool dude. He's got balls of steel, but he's also lived like the back half of his
life in a fucking Marka Lounger where his legs were made of steel and he couldn't see straight
and his dick didn't work. So you know what I mean? You got to have a balance, but you still want
to balance. I'm willing to take a little bit of shit for a little bit of fun, but you don't want
to go too hard. You got to still risk it. I mean, Hunter S. Thompson, it didn't end well, but
it's quite a ride. Quite a ride. What small act of kindness were you once shown that you will never
forget? Wow, that's a great question. I just wrote these for the guinea pig. You're the guinea
pig. That's great. That's a keeper. Okay, that's a keeper. This is where like workshopping questions
take. All right, I'll take it. Now you're open biking. This is your version. Let's see. There's
a couple of ladies in high school who were kind enough to hand job me. That was nice,
which I really appreciate. I don't think women know how much that means to us. You know, women
are like, I'm not a piece of meat or whatever. And you're like, I know, but if you just gave me a
hand job, it would make my world. It's like telling a kid he's smart or loved. See, most people
mentioned like a math teacher middle school that would inspire them to get into science. Give a
shout out to the... Well, that's part of it. That's not the nicest, but I'm just saying that goes a
long way. All right. Let's see. Kindness. That's a great question. I want to give you a good answer.
I got lost when I was like six. I was walking around my dad and I zoned out and went away.
And next thing you know, I don't know where I am. I'm in a neighborhood. This old guy
finds me crying on a lawn somewhere and he goes, uh, come inside and he tried to call my parents
and nothing came of it. Eventually they found me after like nine hours. Cops were there. The FBI
is out there. Fucking helicopters. And I guess, you know, that's nice. This old guy took me in
for a couple hours and just sat me down and kept me safe. That's something. Yeah. Oh, how about
Enus? My transvestite nanny. Very kind. He, uh, did you hear about this? No. Okay. We had this
transvestite nanny. He was like a drag queen, but it was in the 90s. It was weird. It was new.
And, uh, my bike got stolen and he, you know, my parents like, Hey, what are you going to do?
They're poor kids, you know? And he was like, fuck it. Let's, we're going to go get that bike.
And I was like, this guy's in a wig and high heels, big black guy. And I'm like, uh, what are you
going to do? You know, it's gone. And he's like, no, we're going to go get it. So we got in the van
and drove around my neighborhood, saw the kids fuck with the bike, you know, five street tuffs.
And, uh, he goes, all right, you want to come out or should I just do this? And I was like,
you do it. I'm terrified. What are you crazy? And he got out of the van in full, you know,
heels and wig. And he went up to these guys and they went off. Oh my God, look at this fucking guy,
homo, fagging, all this shit. You know, it's the 90s. And he just stared at them long enough to
where they were kind of like, all right, well, I guess we're going to fight you now. And he goes,
that's not your bike. And they go, what are you going to do about it? And he puts his hand on
the middle of the bike and they didn't do anything. And he just picked it up and said, that's what I
thought. Put the bike over shoulder, slid the van door open, threw the bike in and we drove off.
Somebody stuck up for you. Yeah. And you know, I mean, he could have got, I mean,
they had tools. They could have fucking tuned him up two seconds. That actually like takes courage.
Oh yeah. Real courage. And then that, the reason you do and act like that is that
makes a kid like you feel like there's somebody on your side. That's powerful. Someone on your side
is big. Is big. That goes a long way. Especially when they have the risk of getting their ass kicked
or their job taken away or whatever it is. Now we're going to get philosophical, maybe a little
bit emotional. Would you rather lose all your old memories or never be able to make new ones?
It's a tough one, but I'd go easy answer, make new ones. But don't you think all the shitty
things that happen to you? Oh, so my hard drive is wiped clean. It's not, is it memories or is it
how every memory affected me too? I mean, this is a very... How do they go hand in hand? I think
the reality about memories is you replay them often. You go back to them, even when you're not
aware of it. You really go back often like that. And they change. You change them too. Yeah, you
change them to suit your understanding of the world. Yes. And so the dark view you have,
both the hope and the cynicism you have about the world is so deeply grounded in the memories
that you're basically, I would say, if you erase all memories, I think you're really starting over
with maybe the wisdom of how the world works, but not so much your personality's gone. You would
really... It'd be interesting how your comedy would change. Maybe you would have a good sense
of timing. You would have a good sense of the writing process, maybe, but like...
Now you're making some good points, but let me ask you this. Let's say I go to Lake Cuomo with
my girlfriend. Now, I keep my old memories. Let's say I go to the Tuscany with the lady.
I just won't remember that. Yeah, but you get to experience it in the moment.
Okay. You get to enjoy it. Can I look at a photo of it?
Yes. But what the hell is this? Yeah, exactly. Oh, fascinating. It's exact. The rules are pretty
simple. I think everyone knows how the rules go. Yeah, so what... Well, I was going to say start
new ones, but then I realized I wouldn't be who I was without them. That's what you're saying.
So I guess I'd keep them because I am 38, so I've gotten a good chunk out of life.
Yeah. And let's be honest, how many years do you have left? I know, right? I got eights.
Is it better to have loved... Okay, this question is ridiculous. Is it better to have loved than
lost or to have never loved at all? It sounds cliche, but there's a question.
Definitely better to loss. So you enjoy the ups and downs? Yeah, that's life.
We're sun and rain, baby. I kind of like both the whole thing. The loss,
every time you lose something, it really makes you distinctly realize how much you valued it.
Yes. When I'm sad, when I'm feeling alone, and I'm sitting there alone at home,
and I wish I could hang out with somebody, that's like a realization how awesome people are.
Yeah. So it's like the missing the... Yeah. We don't have a lot of that in life anymore,
because we can have anything we want immediately. So the missing has gone away, which again
drives down the joy of having it. So I think you're right. You need both.
So like you said, you have a condition, a terminal condition, not much, many years left.
Do you think about your mortality? You think about that? All day, every day.
Are you afraid? Not afraid, because it's inevitable. So it's more like,
what are we, how are we going to handle this? It's like the winter is coming. Let's stock up on
some nuts. The existential nature of it, the fact that this ride ends, what the hell are you doing
any of this for? Satisfaction, cappiness? Short term, but there is a presumption there
that it kind of goes on forever. I think if you truly think about the fact that it ends...
Your brain almost shuts it down. There's some kind of protective switch that just goes off.
I mean, that's why the Stoics encourage people to meditate on death because it somehow
reorganizes your priorities. It helps you like, holy shit, this ends, make the most of the day.
Yes. It's just a nice thing, but still you can't quite comprehend that the thing ends.
Little things too. People go like, oh, we got a layover between our flights. It's an hour.
What are we going to do for an hour? It's like, maybe what are you going to do for an hour?
You're going to kill an hour. How are we going to kill this hour? This is part of your life.
You're just trying to get rid of it? You're just trying to kill it? That always blew my mind.
Like, hey, fuck it. Let's go hit the airport bar. Let's get a candy bar or something,
anything with bar. But it's just, you've got to live. I hate this. How are we going to burn?
Oh, the bar didn't open for 15 minutes. What are we going to do? Well, we got 15 minutes.
We got the world as our oyster. Yeah, I make the most of it. And like you said,
in modern day, actually the boredom is a gift. Like when you're waiting for something,
that's a gift. You get to be with your thoughts. Those are the same thoughts you'll have when
you're on your deathbed. There won't be a, you won't be scrolling TikTok on your deathbed.
I hope not. Jesus. You'd be a little more, actually, maybe you would be.
What a sad existence. Because it would be a good, like content creators would be like,
ooh, I'm dying. This would be good content. Yeah. I want to be able to film the exact moment.
It goes, like, last words. I wonder what my last words will be. It's a good way to like
end the account with a bang. Yep. I like that. Well, you know that you've ever seen that meme
where the old guy in bed, he goes, I wish I had tweeted more, you know, and then he dies. It's
so true. Could be the future. What do you think is the meaning of life?
I don't think there is one. Everybody always throws that out there. There isn't a meaning. I think
we're here. We're lucky to be here. I think there's no afterlife. There's no heaven. That's,
that's all shit. We tell ourselves to feel better. And I think you got to just,
it's like saying, what is the meaning of this food I made? Well, it's just you enjoy the food.
You try to get the most out of it. You built the food. You prepared it. So just get what you
can out of it. Don't die and try to make it last as long as possible. Yeah. But you look at earth.
It's like four billion years old and life started early on, like, like simple cell
bacteria life, like a one billion years in. And then it started like having lots of
aggressive interaction. Eventually there's predator and prey and there's sex, lots of sex,
lots of sex, lots of violence. Oh yeah. And then, you know, through natural selection,
there's just a whole evolutionary process of, of animals that have loved and lost and murdered
and gotten murdered and all that kind of stuff. And it's somehow led to human civilization. We're
super busy trying to create things and creating beautiful art, creating beautiful comedy.
Yeah. Just always creating something new. It feels like it's tending towards something like,
it's not dying. If you die tomorrow, you still have all these hours of pods. So it's kind of,
you're thinking of cheating death in a subconscious way, I think. Right. You know who
Ernest Becker is and. I've heard the name. It's a book called The Now of Death, this idea that,
that if you don't acknowledge. Books on my show. Girls love it. Really? Like Dostoyevsky. No, I'm
just, I'm saying, you want to bring Tolstoy Dostoyevsky, Russian literature. It's back to norm.
It's good to bring to, because no American has read any Russian literature, but they all appreciate
it if you bring it. And it's not like they're going to ask you and you'll generate questions
because they haven't read it. Yep. So you can always pretend like you've read it. So it's a.
It's a little dense. Can we get a shortened version?
Cliff notes. Yes. Or make a movie with Ben Stiller that I can just go, oh, this is based on
what is it? Life and death? No, it's the one. War and peace. War and peace. Yeah. So Ernest
Becker's theory and there's this whole terror management theory that basically says that like
our terror of death, our fear of death is one of the central creative forces of the human condition.
It's the reason we're trying to, yeah, cheat death. We're trying to delude ourselves that somehow we
can become immortal through our art. That's why you've uploaded your special to YouTube because
you think your special will outlive all of human civilization. You think YouTube will
outlive all of human civilization. That can go away tomorrow. That can go away tomorrow.
All of this can go away. So I'm truly grateful, Mr. Mark Norman, that you would spend your very
valuable time with me today, even though it could all go away. This could be the last day of our
lives. And won't you be quite upset? This is how you spent it. Ah, yeah, in your hotel room. What
am I? You're like Harvey Weinstein here. You've screwed me up and now I feel fucked. Just wait
what we have ready for you after the podcast is over. All right, brother. Thanks so much for
talking to me. Thank you. That was great. Comedy. Thanks for listening to this conversation with
Mark Normand. To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description.
And now let me leave you with some words from Mark Normand himself on his Twitter,
which you should definitely follow because it's hilarious. The worst thing about getting
Omicron for Christmas is you know it was regifted. Thank you for listening and hope to see you next
time.